Outdoor Sports Permit Application

I. Scanning - Outdoor Sports Permit Application forms will be scanned as yyyymmdd-District#

II. Data Entry

1. Look for the OSP file you are pulling information from, from the Backlog folder.

   1. Cut and Paste the document into the OSP's "In Progress Folder"

2. Open PPRstat from your Desktop

3. Select Username from dropdown and hit first button next to the drop down menu to begin session.

4. Once you have reached thescreen above you will have to select a type of entry. Since we are working withOSP we will select “Manage Permits”. Once you select “Manage Permits” you willbe prompted with the question of whether the permit is for outside. Click “Yes”

5. You will then be promoted to the screen above. For OSP forms the minimumrequirement for entry requires:

   • Name and/or Organization 

   • Name Site Requested

   • Age Group

   • Activity Type

   • Group Size

   • Application DATE

   • Days

   • Amenities

   • Staff Approved Signature

   • Initials from applicant on the Rules and Regulations page 

6. Once everything has been filled out completely, write the PermitID created in PPRStat (on the top right hand corner of PPRStat) in the Adobe file you are working on for each permit by using the Typewriter function.

7. If at any point you cannot properly fill out any of these fields, you will need to reject the paperwork. Use the typewriter function to mark the error type in the PDF and delete the entry in PPRStat if one has been made (as well as if you had put the PermitID on the document before completing the entry) and continue with data entry. If the document you are working on is completed with no rejections, cut and paste it into OSP's completed folder. If there are rejections, leave them in progress for now and you will get back to them later once data entry is completed.

•Please note the PermitID number on the top right hand corner for the first entry you do for the week’s intake, you will need to remember it later when you print out the permits.

III. Checks

1. For some OSPs you will need to enter checks and fee amounts; you can find the price rates for each field in the Athletic Fields Fee Schedule document. Usually you will process checks all at once. when working with checks, be sure to make one stack for checks and one for permits. This will help keep you organized during the double checking procedure.
2. You can find the fee amount in the Fee Amount Paid field of the form which is located under the dates and time portion of the OSP form. Put the corresponding fee amount into the PPRStat Fee Amount Paid field. Once you hit enter, you will be prompted to a new screen.
3. Once this screen pops up, you will enter the information as it appears on the check. (Note: Serial numbers will be given to money orders and are usually longer (7+characters) than check numbers which are much shorter (2-3 characters))
   1. Every now and then you will have a check that accounts for more than one permit. In this case you will select that it is not a new check. When you enter this check, be sure to enter the full amount of the check and then simply add the amount that will be used for the other permits on each individual permits.
4. Hit "Apply this Payment"
5. Once you have entered all OSPs with checks, you will have to print the check log. To do so you will have to return to the main screen.
6. There are a few steps you have to take before printing the check log and preparing to have it dropped off.
   1. Start by counting all of the checks and making sure you have the same number that is listed in the Account Log.
   2. Next you will double check the stack of checks with what is on the log. First look at the check number and compare it to the amount.
   3. Next double check the permit number and the amount of money listed on the application.
7. Once you have double checked the checks and the log, you will have to sign and date the last line of the sheet. Then you will be ready to drop the checks and log to the Finance Department.
8. The entered permits will have to be scanned (refer to scanning procedure at the top of this document) and place in the "Completed" folder in the Backlog.
9. Again, if any of the above parts are missing from the application, mark the error type in the PDF, continue with scanning and data entry, then refer to the Tracking Rejected Paperwork document when everything else has been completed.

IV. Printing Permits

	1. Once the permits are all entered into PPRStat or rejected, and the check log has been printed out, you must print out three copies of the permits.
	2. You will need to "Apply A Filter" to capture the permits you want to print in the PPRStat home screen.
	3. Use the permit first OSP PermitID number created during data entry for the PermitStart field and a number higher than the most recent PermitID in the PermitEnd field. (Double check you are capturing all of the week’s intake and not just your entries).
	4. Click on "Print Permits" then click "Yes" to the pop up window to sort the permits by location.
	5. Verify that the data in Print Preview is correct and also note how many permits are being printed by noting the number once you have reached the end. The right-facing arrow will be clear.
	6. click "Print" and make sure that the properties are set to 1-Sided Print, and print out 3 copies making sure to check the "Collate" box.
	7. After everything is printed out, separate the three printed piles and further separate them by their correct districts when putthing them into the mailboxes of the District Managers and Operation Managers. (Please note that the Operation Managers may oversee more than one district.) The third set of copies will be used for mailing out.
	8. Fill out the "Form for Mailroom" document located in the shared drive under "Performance MGNT" in the "Documents" folder. Every field should be filled out in the Adobe form (Department, Contact, Telephone, Email, Job, Service Requested, and Special Requirements should be filled in already)
	 	1. Date/Letter Date/ Date Delivered to Mailroom
	 	2. Quantity
	 	3. Department Courier Signature once it is printed
	9. Hand form, permits, and corresponding number of envelopes to the mailroom.

V. Handling Rejected Paperwork

1. See Tracking Rejected Paperwork